The Fall of Phaeton (1605) by Peter Paul Rubens
The image illustrates the ancient Greek story of Phaeton, a frequent motif in visual arts, and was painted by artist Peter Paul Rubens. Phaeton was the son of Clymene and Helios. Helios vowed to offer him everything he desired if he provided proof that he was actually his son.

Prometheus Bound (1612) by Peter Paul Rubens and Frans Snyders
Peter Paul Rubens was a well-known 17th-century artist who was known for depicting legendary figures from both Greco-Roman mythologies in his paintings. He is regarded as one of the most important Baroque artists, and he was friends and partners with many of the movement’s other masterpieces, including Diego Velázquez and others. Prometheus Bound was one of Rubens’ most beloved paintings during his lifetime.

Telemachus and the Nymphs of Calypso (1782) by Angelica Kauffman

The sculpture shows Telemachus’ landing to Calypso’s island. Her nymphs greet him with food, wine, and flowers. The deity Athena, masquerading as the old person, had been his advisor, and is portrayed being taken away to the left by the sprites.

Ulysses and the Sirens (1891) by John William Waterhouse
John William Waterhouse was another English artist who adopted the Academic group’s aesthetic but was most known for his paintings showing legendary creatures dressed in costumes and other clothing that was fashionable in England at the time. Ulysses with the Sirens is one of Waterhouse’s most well-known works. This 1891 artwork shows the well-known narrative of Ulysses, with the Greek figure chained to the ship’s mast in an attempt to keep him from submitting to the Sirens’ seduction.

Perseus and Andromeda (1891) by Frederic Leighton
Andromeda’s mythical subject is presented in a spectacular manner. On a rocky coastline, the setting is a portrayal of the tale. On his winged horse Pegasus, Perseus is pictured flying over the head of Andromeda. He fires an arrow from the air, which strikes the sea monster, who raises his head to face the hero. The black creature’s wings shade Andromeda’s virtually bare, twisted form, offering a visual hint of impending doom. Additionally, Andromeda’s graceful form contrasts with the monster’s uneven and jagged body’s black bulk.

