LIBERTY LEADING THE PEOPLE
Liberty has existed as a goddess in many cultures and during the French Revolution, many allegorical personifications of ‘Liberty’ appeared in France. Since then the figure of Liberty is viewed as a symbol of France and the French Republic. This painting commemorates the July Revolution of 1830 in which King Charles X of France was overthrown. It shows Liberty as both a goddess and a robust woman of the people. She holds the flag of France in one hand and a firearm in her other hand. Eugene Delacroix is regarded as the leading French Romantic painter. Liberty Leading the People is not only his most famous painting but also an iconic French artwork which has inspired many artists since its creation.

THE RAFT OF THE MEDUSA
Méduse was a French warship which fought in the Napoleonic Wars. Though it survived the battles, it crashed in a sandbank in July 1816 while transporting people to Senegal. The 400 people on board had to evacuate; out of which 151 were put on a raft. These men on the raft had to go through a terrible ordeal. Many were washed into the sea by a storm; others rebelled and were killed by officers; the survivors engaged in cannibalism; and when supplies ran low, injured men were thrown into the sea. After 13 days on sea, the raft was found with only 15 men surviving. The event became an international scandal. Théodore Géricault thoroughly studied the incident before creating this masterpiece. The Raft of the Medusa proved to be hugely influential in French art; is considered an iconic work of French Romanticism; and has immortalized the incident it depicts.

The death of Marat
Jean-Paul Marat was a journalist and politician who was one of the most radical voices of the French Revolution. His paper, L’Ami du peuple (Friend of the People), was the most celebrated radical publication of the revolution but it was also considered reckless as it instigated violent and rebellious behavior. Charlotte Corday, who came from a minor aristocratic family, blamed Marat for the September Massacre during the Reign of Terror. She gained entrance to his room on the pretext that she had information of counter-revolutionary activities. Marat, who spend much time in his bathtub due to a skin condition, was fatally stabbed by Charlotte on 13th July 1793. She was later tried and executed. The Death of Marat, which shows the radical journalist lying dead in his bath, is one of the most famous pictures of the French Revolution. It is also the most famous work of Jacques-Louis David, the leading French painter of his era.

DANCE AT LE MOULIN DE LA GALETTE
This painting depicts a Sunday afternoon at Moulin de la Galette in the district of Montmartre in 19th Century Paris. Moulin de la Galette was an open-air dancehall and café that was close to Renoir’s home. He frequently attended Sunday afternoon dances at this café and enjoyed watching the happy couples. In the painting, Renoir masterfully links the art of collective portrait, still life and landscape painting. The canvas of the painting was unique due to its size. It was Renoir’s most ambitious figure painting and no artist before him had created a canvas of this magnitude for capturing an aspect of daily life. One of Impressionism’s most celebrated masterpieces, Bal du moulin de la Galette has been described as “the most beautiful painting of the 19th century”.

WATER LILIES
The “Nympheas” series of Monet consists of approximately 250 oil paintings which were created by him during the last 30 years of his life. They are now on display in museums all around the world. The dazzling complexity of color and light in the panels opens the viewer’s eyes to the incredible diversity of nature and to the depth and mystery of the life it sustains. An amazing thing about these works is that Monet’s eyesight was badly deteriorating due to cataract while he painted most of these masterpieces. Claude Monet’s water-lily paintings are among the most recognized and celebrated works of 20th Century and they hugely influenced following generations of artists. They have been described as “The Sistine Chapel of Impressionism”.

IMPRESSION, SUNRISE
Impressionism was an art movement that emerged in France in the middle of the 19th century. Among other things, it is is characterized by accurate depiction of light, candid poses and vivid colors. This painting is famous for giving a name to the Impressionist movement and has now become its quintessential symbol. It was not well taken by the critics and the term Impressionist was coined in a satirical review by Louis Leroy. The Impressionist movement, however, soon became so popular that it spread to music and literature as well. The subject of the painting is the harbor of Le Havre in France. Impression, Sunrise is noted for very loose brushstrokes that suggest rather than define it. Monet uses color as the main factor to capture the very essence of the scene.    

THE CARD PLAYERS
Broadly, Post-Impressionism describes French art style from mid 1880s to early 1900s. It extended Impressionism while rejecting its limitations; and laid emphasis on abstract qualities and symbolic content. A masterpiece of Post-Impressionist art, The Card Players series was painted in the final period of Paul Cezanne’s work, which is considered his best period. The paintings depict Provencal peasants engrossed in playing cards and smoking their pipes. They are noted for their lack of drama, narrative and conventional characterization. In 2011, one version of The Card Players was sold for more than $250 million, making it the most expensive work of art ever sold. It held the record till February 2015 when Gauguin’s When Will You Marry? fetched close to US $300 million.

The thinker by Rodin
Auguste Rodin famously made more than 20 drafts of the sculpture (which are often hard to tell from the original), and these drafts are now disseminated all around the world. You can find them in museum Ca Pesaro in Venice, in the Laeken cemetery in Brussels, at the entry of the California Palace of the Legion of Honor in San Francisco, in the museum Brennand in Brasil, and also in Meudon (a city in the outskirts of Paris), in the villa des Brillants on Auguste Rodin’s own grave.

La Victoire de Samothrace (Winged Victory of Samothrace)
