Kawanabe Kyosai - Tiger
Kawanabe Kyosai was one of the most prominent Japanese artists of the Edo period. His art was influenced by the work of Tohaku, a Kano artist of the sixteenth century who was the only artist of his period to paint screens entirely in ink on a delicate background of powdered gold. Although Kyosai is best-known as caricaturist, he created some of the most notable paintings in the Japanese history of art of the 19th Century. Tiger is one of these paintings where Kyosai used watercolor and ink to create this picture.

Hiroshi Yoshida - Fuji from Kawaguchi Lake
Hiroshi Yoshida is known as one of the most important figures of the shin-hanga style (shin-hanga was an art movement in early 20th-century Japan, during the Taishō and Shōwa periods, that revitalized traditional ukiyo-e art rooted in the Edo and Meiji periods (17th–19th century). He was trained in the Western oil painting tradition, which was adopted into Japanese art styles during the Meiji period.

Takashi Murakami - 727
Takashi Murakami is probably the most popular Japanese artists today. His works are being sold for astronomical prices at big auctions, while his art has been already inspiring the whole new generations of artists, not only in Japan, but internationally. Murakami’s art encompasses a wide range of mediums and is generally described as superflat. His work has been noted for its use of color, incorporation of motifs from Japanese traditional and popular culture. The content of his paintings is often described as “cute,” “psychedelic,” or “satirical”.

Yayoi Kusama - Pumpkin
Yayoi Kusama is also one of the most renowned contemporary Japanese artists. She creates in a variety of different media, including painting, collage, scat sculpture, performance, environmental and installation art, most of which exhibit her thematic interest in psychedelic colors, repetition and pattern. One of the most renowned series by this great artist is Pumpkin series. Covered in polka dots in a rich yellow color, the iconic pumpkin is presented against a background of nets. When coupled, all such elements form a visual language that is unmistakable to the artist’s style, and has been evolved and perfected through decades of painstaking production and reproduction.

Tenmyouya Hisashi - Japanese Spirit No. 14
Tenmyouya Hisashi is contemporary Japanese artist, who is best-known for his "Neo-Nihonga" paintings. He participated in the revival of the old Japanese painting tradition, and it represents an antithesis to a modern Japanese-style painting. In 2000, he also created his new style "Butouha" which shows the resistant attitude for authoritative art system through his paintings. Japanese Spirit No. 14 was created as part of the "BASARA" art scheme, interpreted in Japanese culture as a rebellious behavior of lower-class aristocracy during the Warring States Period to deny authority in pursuit of an ideal lifestyle by dressing in magnificent and luxurious costumes and acting in free will, did not match their social class identities.

Katsushika Hokusai - The Great Wave off Kanagawa
Finally, The Great Wave off Kanagawa by Katsushika Hokusai is probably the most recognizable Japanese painting ever made. It’s actually the most prominent piece of art “made in Japan”. It depicts an enormous wave threatening boats off the coast of the prefecture of Kanagawa. While sometimes assumed to be a tsunami, the wave is, as the picture’s title suggests, more likely to be a large rogue wave. The painting is executed in the tradition of ukiyo-e.